[00:00:01] As we look back at some of our logo you're going to lightning speed, dude. I'm Chris and today I want to talk to you about three ways three ways you can improve your design. As we look back at some of our logo critiques, we kept noticing consistent issues popping up, right? I'm going to play some clips. After the clips, we'll do a quick breakdown and talk about how you can avoid these three common mistakes and hopefully improve your design. So, here's his logo. This one's coming from Bao Weiding Win. It's using, I

[00:00:33] believe, Futura. It's trident and he's got two bars on the top and the bottom. Now, this feels really nice to me. Here's what I like about this. There's a graphic element, so it feels like a symbol, but I can read it and it's well integrated. What I don't like about it is where the bars on the top and the bottom of the tride land. The way that you say it is trident, so I wanted to emphasize one syllable or the other. So, we don't want to use graphic elements purely for decoration. We want to reinforce and make the logo even more

[00:01:05] legible. So, next up is Hoodlum done by Ashlyn Harris. Logo created for Hoodlum, a clothing line for the people who don't fit in with the rest. I like this lockup. You're trying to get everything nice and tight and that's a good thing. Although, I don't necessarily love the modifications that you made. I don't like how the L and the U come together because the way that these sans serif typefaces terminate, it's with a straight line, right? So, when you first of all, put it on an angle and you kind of follow the curvature of the U, it just makes it look like that letter form

[00:01:35] is from some other typeface. The other thing is you've kind of cut off the H, basically the bottom of the H and put a bar across. I like that as a visual element, but you're also making the H very hard to read. Somebody might look at that and see it as a symbol, like some kind of abstract crown or something, and then read it as Udlam. So, legibility should supersede any kind of decorative element that you do. Next up is from Roberto Ramos. The name of my brand is Avi. The three eyes is the

[00:02:05] three-point line half court line and the other three-point line. Okay, first of all, I like this mark. It does feel a little bit like retro 80s logo. Pretty cool. Except for I thought it read audio. a u d i o and then when I read it was for Avi, I was thinking this isn't read as Avi at all. Yeah, it doesn't. No, I thought it was audio as well. Right? It would be a pretty good mark for audio. Okay, good mark and you guys please please please make sure it reads. Reading the your word mark on your logo is very

[00:02:35] important. It supersedes all the other decisions that you're making. All right, this is from Jake Goosen. It's a book and it's a worm. Uh-huh. It works. So, here's where maybe the type pairing with the mark feels a little bit off. A lot of you guys are really good at drawing symbols. I think you just need to learn how to pair it with a different typeface and the lockup is important. Here's where I'm thinking you can play around with mixing two weights where you do book in a lighter weight and then warm is in a bolder typeface. Mhm. Yeah.

[00:03:07] Break it up. Next up, Jacob Keelan. My take on a driverless car logo. Oh, interesting. It's an exploration of the GPS symbol. Ooh. It does feel like automotive. It's got that nice kind of chevron crest shape paired with a nice bold sans serif typeface. It has this point which is that reads like the letter A. So, I'll autonome, it makes sense to me and it's also a navigation system. So, that's the point you're pointing north. Those are two good things and it's not illustrating like we talked about this before. You don't want to illustrate what it does. You don't

[00:03:38] want to show a guy like giving you directions. It's it's abstract, but it's clear what it is. It reminds me of Tesla a little bit. Actually, it reminds me of Star Trek. Everybody going to be reminded of something here. So, the natural thing is to compare always. And designers are like famous for comparing things. This is both good and bad. I I like to look at things for what they are because I always feel like everything's already been done. And as long as there's not a navigation system that looks just like this, I'm good with that. Cuz you know, you can't own a triangle. You can't own a square or trapezoid cuz it's for

[00:04:10] everybody to use. That's true. I wasn't saying it was a bad thing though. No, I wasn't saying you said it. I'm I'm reacting to like how people always It's just like that. And then people dismiss it. Uh-huh. And then they make something really ugly. Yeah. Okay, so let me share with you the mistakes I saw and how to fix them. Always work in black and white. No colors, no textures. This will make it easier for you to focus on the important aspects of a logo. Things like hierarchy, contrast, and legibility. Legibility, legibility, legibility.

[00:04:41] Not being able to read the logo, pretty serious mistake. As you design your logo, you are making lots of little decisions, chopping letters, changing fonts, etc. It's easy to get carried away to the point in which the mark becomes really difficult to read. The solution? Always ask yourself, is it legible? Does it read well? Legibility should supersede every other consideration. If you remember this, you won't make the mistake of making your Critiquing is an art. It's not that anybody can just throw out a random comment and think that somebody's going

[00:05:12] to derive useful information. So, when somebody asks you for your opinion, just take a moment to think, to process, and look at something. And try not to react right off the bat. I like to think of it like peeling an onion. Let me explain. One, I start by simply describing what I'm seeing. Just what's clearly there. The typeface, the shapes, the curves, the points, the line weights, etc. No judgments. Then I start to notice how certain things make me feel, and I describe them using phrases like this feels funny to me, or I like this. Finally, having peeled back all the

[00:05:43] layers, I feel the context has been set, and I can start sharing ideas for or that we can do to improve. Okay, there you have it. Three common mistakes designers make and how you can avoid them. I hope you enjoyed this video and you feel like you're a better designer than you were 5 minutes ago. Want to submit your logo for a critique? It's pretty straightforward. Make sure you follow us on Facebook @thefutureishere. The future is spelled with no e, but you should know that by now. All right, make sure you guys like, comment, subscribe, and hit that bell. Goodbye and see you
